.. default-intersphinx:: djblets1.0 rb3.0


=================================
Review Board 3.0.10 Release Notes
=================================

**Release date**: November 6, 2018


Packaging
=========

* `Djblets 1.0.8`_ is now required.


.. _Djblets 1.0.8:
   https://www.reviewboard.org/docs/releasenotes/djblets/1.0.8/


New Features
============

* Review request e-mails now contain the contents of the branch field.
  (:bug:`4707`)

  Patch by Bolarinwa Balogun.


Usability Improvements
======================

* The New Review Request page now confirms before posting a commit for review.
  (:bug:`4129`)

  This helps prevent commits from accidentally being posted for review when
  scrolling around, particularly on touchscreens.

  Patch by Sarah Hoven.


Extensions
==========

* Loading or enabling an extension no longer triggers database modifications
  prematurely.

  This results in faster load times for new extensions or newly-upgraded
  versions of extensions, and prevents extensions from prematurely upgrading
  another extension's database schema.

* Extensions are no longer loaded during database upgrade.

  This can prevent issues when upgrading to a new version of Review Board
  when there's a new version of an extension also being installed.

* Deprecated functionality used by extensions will now emit warnings that
  contain the version the functionality is scheduled to be removed.


Bug Fixes
=========

Review Requests
---------------

* Fixed linking multiple URLs in the same paragraph when spread across
  multiple lines. (:bug:`4685`)

  Patch by Colin Kushniruk.


Infoboxes
---------

* The user infobox no longer shows a blank area where the avatar should be
  if avatars are disabled. (:bug:`4738`)

  Patch by John Sudol and Stuart Caie.


WebHooks
--------

* Fixed generating some WebHook payloads. (:bug:`4759`)

  Some Python types were not being properly serialized before sending the
  payload.


Administration
--------------

* Fixed a crash when adding new administration dashboard widgets.
  (:bug:`4747`)

  Patch by Storm Kaefer.

* Fixed a bad example in the help text for the Bitbucket repository name
  field. (:bug:`4664`)

  Patch by Storm Kaefer.


Contributors
============

* Barret Rennie
* Bolarinwa Balogun
* Christian Hammond
* Colin Kushniruk
* David Trowbridge
* John Sudol
* Sarah Hoven
* Storm Kaefer
* Stuart Caie
