.. default-intersphinx:: djblets1.0 rb3.0


=================================
Review Board 3.0.15 Release Notes
=================================

**Release date**: June 11, 2019


.. important::

   If you use Bitbucket for hosting code, you will need to upgrade to this
   release in order to continue posting new diffs for review and viewing
   existing diffs, due to an API change in Bitbucket.


Packaging
=========

These updates only apply if you're maintaining custom packages for Review
Board. System administrators will receive these updates automatically upon
installation.

* `Djblets 1.0.12`_ is now required.


.. _Djblets 1.0.12:
   https://www.reviewboard.org/docs/releasenotes/djblets/1.0.12/


Extensions
==========

* Fixed handling click events for custom review request actions registered
  using :js:class:`RB.ReviewRequestActionHook`.


Web API
=======

* :ref:`webapi2.0-review-request-draft-resource` now properly validates the
  ``depends_on`` values.

  This will check that the values are all numeric review request IDs, and
  not something like a URL, showing a suitable error message.


Bug Fixes
=========

Avatars
-------

* Fixed rendering of the fallback avatars and some custom backends in
  user selector widgets.

* Fixed the fallback avatar service not being used when a default avatar
  service is configured. (:bug:`4800`)


E-Mail
------

* Fixed some rendering bugs with HTML e-mails.

  Patch by Erik Johansson.


Review Requests
---------------

* Large images in text fields no longer overflow the field.

  This applies to the review request description, Testing Done, and any
  reviews. The images will be sized to properly fit within the bounds of
  the text box.

* Fixed displaying emojis in text fields. (:bug:`4817`)

  The CDN used to render emojis had changed, breaking the display in any
  review request fields. We've updated the URLs to use the correct CDN.

* The Depends On field now validates non-numeric review request IDs without
  showing crash errors.


Bitbucket
---------

* Fixed validating and rendering diffs.

  On June 11, 2019, an API we used to fetch the content of files had been
  removed, replaced by a newer API. This broke uploading of new diffs and
  viewing of existing diffs. We now use the new API.

  This version is required for continued use of Bitbucket.

* Fixed crashes in parsing certain Bitbucket webhook payloads.

  Bitbucket changed the contents of their payloads in subtle but important
  ways, leaving out data in some cases and therefore breaking our parsing of
  the payload contents and generating errors. We now do a better job of
  handling missing data, falling back or skipping the event entirely.


Administration
--------------

* Fixed a regression with saving user and group access lists for repositories.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Erik Johansson
