.. default-intersphinx:: djblets1.0 rb3.0


=================================
Review Board 3.0.14 Release Notes
=================================

**Release date**: March 19, 2019


Packaging
=========

These updates only apply if you're maintaining custom packages for Review
Board. System administrators will receive these updates automatically upon
installation.

* `Djblets 1.0.11`_ is now required.

* `Less 3.9`_ is now required.


.. _Djblets 1.0.11:
   https://www.reviewboard.org/docs/releasenotes/djblets/1.0.11/
.. _Less 3.9: http://lesscss.org/


New Features
============

* Added a new UI for adding and configuring integrations.

  We've completely redone the Integrations page in the Administration UI,
  helping to manage larger numbers of integrations. Now, all the configured
  integrations are presented in a list, and can be edited or deleted from
  there. Adding an integration is done through an :guilabel:`Add Integration`
  button, which will display the entire list of available integrations.

* Added a fallback avatar for when other services aren't available.

  If a user or administrator opted out of other avatar services, we would
  log a failure each time we tried to render an avatar and then show a blank
  spot where the avatar would be.

  Now, we display a fallback, which is composed of the first two letters of
  the username sitting on top of a background with a color computed from the
  username.


Extensions
==========

* Extensions can now make use of the features from `Less 3.9`_ in their
  stylesheets.

  Previously, they were limited to the capabilities of Less 2.6. See the
  `Less ChangeLog`_ for the changes made since that release.


.. _Less ChangeLog: https://github.com/less/less.js/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md


Web API
=======

* Added options for rendering avatars to HTML in
  :ref:`webapi2.0-user-list-resource` and :ref:`webapi2.0-user-resource`.

  Performing an HTTP GET to these URLs with
  ``?render-avatars-at=<size>,[...]`` or an HTTP POST with
  ``render_avatars_at=<size>,[...]`` will result in the ``avatars_html`` field
  in the response being populated with a mapping of sizes to rendered avatar
  HTML strings. This allows clients to retrieve avatars that are more
  complicated than a list of URLs (for instance, when rendering the new
  fallback avatar).

* :ref:`webapi2.0-review-request-last-update-resource` once again shows the
  correct authors for reviews and review requests.

  Patch by Erik Johansson.


Bug Fixes
=========

Review Requests
---------------

* Fixed the author shown in the "New Review" bubble on the review request
  page.

  Due to a regression in a previous release, this user was sometimes shown
  as the owner of the review request and not the author of the review.

  Patch by Erik Johansson.


Hosting Services
----------------

* Fixed a crash with the close-submitted hooks when missing review request
  IDs are referenced.


Integrations
------------

* Fixed a regression in integration conditions with matching repositories and
  review groups.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Erik Johansson
