.. default-intersphinx:: djblets1.0 rb3.0


=================================
Review Board 3.0.25 Release Notes
=================================

**Release date**: March 7, 2023


Installation/Upgrade
====================

Review Board 3.0.25 is compatible with Python 2.7.

Follow our :ref:`installation guide <installing-reviewboard-toc>` to prepare
your system for Review Board or to upgrade your existing install.

To install this release, run:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip install ReviewBoard==3.0.25

To learn more, see:

* :ref:`Documentation <reviewboard-docs>`
* :pypi:`Review Board on PyPI <reviewboard>`
* `Review Board on GitHub <https://github.com/reviewboard/reviewboard>`_
* `Review Board Support`_
* `Power Pack for Review Board <https://www.reviewboard.org/powerpack/>`_


.. _Review Board Support: https://www.reviewboard.org/support/


Security Fixes
==============

A security bug was found that enables a user to log in as another user when
LDAP is configured and *all* the following criteria are met:

1. You're using an LDAP server with a security bug that considers a password
   with an empty user DN to be valid credentials.

   This is unusual and  against the LDAP standard. It's been found in an
   old version of Active Directory when directly using LDAP, and in
   decades-old versions of OpenLDAP in specific configurations.

2. The LDAP server has anonymous binds enabled.

   This allows completely unauthenticated access to the LDAP directory and,
   along with the first issue, triggers the flawed behavior in Review Board.

3. The target user to log in as exists in the local Review Board database
   but not in LDAP.

   Users can only log into local-only accounts, not others in LDAP. In most
   LDAP-based setups, the only local user created is the default Review Board
   ``admin`` user, which is protected so long as there's also an ``admin``
   user in LDAP.

Most users should never hit this issue, as it's fully dependent on an insecure
LDAP server implementation. Modern versions of OpenLDAP, Active Directory, and
other popular servers are not susceptible to this bug. If you use Active
Directory with Review Board's "Active Directory" backend, you will not
encounter this bug.

This issue affects Review Board because an LDAP server with this security bug
results in a "valid credentials" code path in Review Board when trying to log
in as a user that doesn't exist in LDAP.

We've tightened the code path and added additional checks to ensure this will
no longer happen. The fix is present in Review Board :doc:`5.0.3 <5.0.3>`,
:doc:`4.0.12 <4.0.12>`, and :doc:`3.0.25 <3.0.25>`.

We recommend also upgrading your LDAP server to ensure you have all the latest
security fixes, and disable anonymous binds if you don't need them.

If you have any questions or concerns, contact `Review Board Support`_.


Packaging
=========

* Capped the dependency on :pypi:`packaging` to < 21.0.

  This is needed for Python 2.7 compatibility.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
