.. default-intersphinx:: djblets1.0 rb3.0


=================================
Review Board 3.0.11 Release Notes
=================================

**Release date**: December 6, 2018


Security Fixes
==============

* The Diff Validation API no longer allows usage of private repositories.

  The :ref:`webapi2.0-validate-diff-resource` allowed for private
  repositories to be specified when validating a new diff. This did not leak
  any file contents whatsoever, but could expose whether a particular file at
  a revision did or did not exist, or whether an uploaded patch could be
  applied against those files.

  This is only an issue for servers making use of private repositories, and it
  does not apply to :term:`Local Site` access control. Still, we recommend
  that everyone updates to this release.


New Features
============

* Added support for modern Bitbucket WebHooks for auto-closing review
  requests.

  Bitbucket recently removed support for their legacy WebHooks, breaking
  Review Board deployments that used that for auto-closing review requests.

  This release adds support for the modern WebHooks. Administrators will
  need to re-add WebHooks (see our :ref:`instructions
  <repository-hosting-bitbucket-config-webhooks>`).

* Increased the maximum length of repository names to 255. (:bug:`4730`)

  Some users manage so many repositories that it makes sense to just use the
  repository URLs/clone paths as the repository names. This gives them much
  more room to do that, bringing the maximum length from 64 to 255.

  Patch by Praise Ayorinde.


Bug Fixes
=========

* Fixed the error information when unable to determine the GitLab API version.
  (:bug:`4737`)

  Users with self-hosted GitLab installs have run into errors saying that the
  GitLab API version could not be determined. We've found this is generally
  caused by either a domain name resolution issue or an untrusted SSL
  certificate.

  The error displayed now includes information on the original error, for
  diagnostic purposes, and lists possible causes.

* Fixed sending of WebHook payloads using certain data types. (:bug:`4759`)

  This builds upon fixes in 3.0.10, supporting more data types that weren't
  being properly handled in WebHook payloads.


Contributors
============

* Barret Rennie
* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Praise Ayorinde
