.. default-intersphinx:: djblets2.x rb4.0


=================================
Review Board 4.0.10 Release Notes
=================================

**Release date**: July 28, 2022


.. note::

   This is a re-release of Review Board 4.0.8 and 4.0.9, fixing a packaging
   bug. Those releases have been pulled and replaced with 4.0.10.


Packaging
=========

* Capped the :pypi:`Markdown` dependency on Python 3 to 3.3.x.

  This works around compatibility issues from the newly-released 3.4.x series.

* Fixed a problem packaging Review Board with newer versions of Babel_.


.. _Babel: https://babeljs.io/


Docker
======

The `Docker image`_ has been updated to include `Power Pack`_ 5.1 and
`Review Bot`_ 3.1.1.


.. _Docker image: https://hub.docker.com/r/beanbag/reviewboard
.. _Power Pack: https://www.reviewboard.org/powerpack/
.. _Review Bot: https://www.reviewboard.org/downloads/reviewbot/


Bug Fixes
=========

Review Requests
---------------

* Fixed switching between Source and Rendered modes when reviewing Markdown
  files.

* Fixed an uncommon bug with changing a comment's issue state on a review
  request with multiple comments of different types with the same IDs.

  If a single review request had multiple comment types with the same ID
  (for example, Diff Comment 123 and General Comment 123), resolving or
  re-opening an issue on one of them would change the status on the other,
  due to a state tracking issue.

  This should almost never happen in production, but could be seen on
  brand-new installations.


Extensions
----------

* Fixed running :ref:`rbext <rbext>` on Python 3.10.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
