.. default-intersphinx:: djblets2.x rb4.0


=================================
Review Board 4.0.11 Release Notes
=================================

**Release date**: September 29, 2022


Packaging
=========

* Capped the :pypi:`bleach` dependency at 3.3.x.

* Capped the :pypi:`django-evolution` dependency at 2.1.x.

* Capped the :pypi:`mimeparse` dependency at 0.1.x.


New Features
============

* Added debug logs for failed database upgrades.

  If there's an issue upgrading the database, complete details will be
  logged to a file that can be used when contacting `Beanbag Support`_ to
  help diagnose and repair the issue.

* Added new internal capabilities for repository configuration.

  This is mostly behind-the-scenes, but will enable support for new
  remote SSH access for :rbintegration:`Cliosoft SOS <cliosoft-sos>`
  repositories.


.. _Beanbag Support: https://www.reviewboard.org/support/


Performance Improvements
========================

* Improved performance when communicating with repositories over SSH.


Web API
=======

* Added APIs for controlling repository access lists.

  Administrators can now control the users and groups that are allowed to
  access review requests on a repository.

  This is done through the :ref:`webapi2.0-repository-group-list-resource`
  and :ref:`webapi2.0-repository-user-list-resource` APIs.


Bug Fixes
=========

* Fixed rare data truncation issues in SSH communication.

  Depending on the operations being performed over SSH, it's possible for
  a session to end before all data has been received. This would normally
  manifest as a visible error talking to a repository, rather than any kind
  of data loss.

  We haven't had any reports of this, but have managed to trigger this
  behavior with some work we've been exploring.

* Fixed issues with multiple commits in Mercurial.

  Posting multiple commits to a review request could cause issues with looking
  up modified files in the diff, due to some state being ignored during
  processing.

  Patch by Valentin Bartenev.

* Fixed a crash in :ref:`rb-site <rb-site>` when running in a pseudo-terminal
  that claims a width of 0.

  Patch by Werner Damman.

* Fixed a precision error that could occur in API rate limiting.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
* Valentin Bartenev
* Werner Damman
