.. default-intersphinx:: djblets2.x rb4.0


================================
Review Board 4.0.6 Release Notes
================================

**Release date**: March 2, 2022


Packaging
=========

* Updated the ``django_evolution`` dependency to >= 2.1.4, < 3.0.


Web API
=======

* :ref:`webapi2.0-file-diff-resource` now provides binary file state.

  The ``binary`` flag will represent whether the file is a binary file or
  a text file.

  This is available for diffs generated for most SCMs.

* :ref:`webapi2.0-file-diff-resource` now provides symlink target information.

  When parsing a diff representing a symlink, information on the old and
  new symlink targets are now available in the ``extra_data`` field as
  ``old_symlink_target`` and ``new_symlink_target`` keys.

  This currently applies to newly-uploaded Git diffs, Git-like Mercurial
  diffs, and DiffX_ files.

* :ref:`webapi2.0-file-diff-resource` now provides UNIX file mode changes.

  When parsing a diff containing UNIX file mode changes, information on the
  old and new file modes are now now available in the ``extra_data`` field as
  ``old_unix_mode`` and ``new_unix_mode``.

  This currently applies to newly-uploaded Git diffs, Git-like Mercurial
  diffs, and DiffX_ files.


.. _DiffX: https://diffx.org


Bug Fixes
=========

General
-------

* Fixed the styling for the mobile menu when logged out.

  Patch by Dalton Ronan.


Diff Viewer
-----------

* Indentation changes are no longer hidden when viewing interdiffs.

* Fixed a regression in downloading failed patch bundles on Python 3.

  Patch by Kyle McLean.


Review Requests
---------------

* Clicking "No issues" in the issue summary table no longer leads to a broken
  URL.


Administration
--------------

* Fixed a regression with loading database pages provided by extensions.

  This was being hit by people using `Review Bot`_.


.. _Review Bot: https://www.reviewboard.org/downloads/reviewbot/


Bitbucket
---------

* Fixed a crash with API error parsing on Python 3.


Mercurial
---------

* Fixed a crash when viewing a diff containing a change to a symlink.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* Dalton Ronan
* David Trowbridge
* Kyle McLean
