.. default-intersphinx:: djblets3.x rb5.x

===================================
Review Board 5.0 RC 1 Release Notes
===================================

**Release date**: September 20, 2022


Review Board 5.0 RC 1 drops support for Python 2.7. This has been end-of-life
since January 2020. The 5.x series will support Python 3.7 through 3.11.

This release contains all bug fixes and features from Review Board version
:doc:`4.0.10 <4.0.10>`, :doc:`5.0 beta 1 <5.0-beta-1>`, and :doc:`5.0 beta 2
<5.0-beta-2>`.


Installation/Upgrades
=====================

To install this release, run the following::

    $ sudo pip3 install \
        -f https://downloads.reviewboard.org/betas/reviewboard/5.0-rc-1/ \
        --pre -U ReviewBoard


.. warning::

   We **do not** recommend upgrading a production server with this version of
   Review Board. It's best to install on a test server, with a copy of your
   production database, in case there are any major problems.


New Features
============

* The :guilabel:`Ship It!` indicators in the dashboard are now grey if there's
  been a new update since the last Ship It! (:bug:`2106`)

* API tokens can now be set to expire.

  Like API policy documents, expiration can be changed at any time, based on
  the needs of the user.

* Users are now e-mailed when attempting to use an expired API token for
  authentication.


Bug Fixes
=========

* Fixed a regression where new API tokens weren't being shown in
  :guilabel:`My Account -> API Tokens`.

* Fixed a regression causing a crash in the Reviews datagrids.

* Fixed a precision error that could occur in API rate limiting.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
