.. default-intersphinx:: djblets3.x rb5.x


================================
Review Board 5.0.6 Release Notes
================================

**Release date**: September 12, 2023


Installation/Upgrade
====================

Review Board 5.0.6 is compatible with Python 3.7-3.11.

Follow our :ref:`installation guide <installing-reviewboard-toc>` to prepare
your system for Review Board or to upgrade your existing install.

To install this release, run:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip3 install ReviewBoard==5.0.6

To learn more, see:

* :ref:`Documentation <reviewboard-docs>`
* :ref:`Installing Review Board on Docker <installation-docker>`
* `Power Pack for Review Board <https://www.reviewboard.org/powerpack/>`_
* :pypi:`Review Board on PyPI <reviewboard>`
* `Review Board on GitHub <https://github.com/reviewboard/reviewboard>`_

For assistance with your server, `talk to us about support <Review Board
Support_>`_.


.. _Review Board Support: https://www.reviewboard.org/support/


Packaging
=========

* The ``ReviewBoard[mysql]`` package now caps :pypi:`mysqlclient` to 2.1.x.

  This resolves an installation problem that newer releases (2.2.x and higher)
  have on most versions of Linux. Unfortunately, these newer versions may
  be required for some versions of MySQL 8.

  If you have trouble installing this version, you may need to manually
  install :pypi:`mysqlclient` 2.2.x or higher directly.

  This installation issue is unfortunate and beyond our control. Please see
  the `mysqlclient discussion`_ around this issue, and our :ref:`MySQL
  installation instructions <linux-mysql>`.


.. _mysqlclient discussion:
   https://github.com/PyMySQL/mysqlclient/discussions/624


New Features
============

Future-proofed upgrades
-----------------------

Upgrading a Review Board site now carefully updates the
:file:`reviewboard.wsgi` file to remove any legacy settings, add modern
settings, and preserve custom settings. The new versions include improved
support for Python virtual environments (which are now recommended for all
new installs).

We've also bullet-proofed virtual environment management to avoid replacing
an existing virtual environment if not managed by Review Board.


Usability
=========

* Copying the review request ID link under the Summary field will no longer
  include the ``#``.

  This makes it easier to copy the ID of a review request to the clipboard.


Web API
=======

* :ref:`webapi2.0-review-group-list-resource`:

  * Added a ``?show-invisible=true`` query argument to include hidden
    accessible review groups.

  * Added a ``?invite-only=<true|false>`` query argument to filter review
    groups based on the ``invite_only`` value.

  * Fixed including hidden invite-only review groups when the special
    ``reviews.can_view_invite_only_groups`` user permission is set.


Bug Fixes
=========

Review Requests
---------------

* Fixed a display bug with Markdown code blocks that could occur when showing
  content starting with a ``#!``.

* Fixed a display bug with the file attachment diff revision slider.

* Fixed a bug where updating a file attachment with a new revision would
  sometimes create a new file attachment.


Administration
--------------

* Configurable lists of review groups now include hidden accessible review
  groups and repositories.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
