.. default-intersphinx:: djblets3.x rb5.x


================================
Review Board 5.0.5 Release Notes
================================

**Release date**: June 20, 2023


Installation/Upgrade
====================

Review Board 5.0.5 is compatible with Python 3.7-3.11.

Follow our :ref:`installation guide <installing-reviewboard-toc>` to prepare
your system for Review Board or to upgrade your existing install.

To install this release, run:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip3 install ReviewBoard==5.0.5

To learn more, see:

* :ref:`Documentation <reviewboard-docs>`
* :ref:`Installing Review Board on Docker <installation-docker>`
* `Power Pack for Review Board <https://www.reviewboard.org/powerpack/>`_
* :pypi:`Review Board on PyPI <reviewboard>`
* `Review Board on GitHub <https://github.com/reviewboard/reviewboard>`_

For assistance with your server, `talk to us about support <Review Board
Support_>`_.


.. _Review Board Support: https://www.reviewboard.org/support/


New Features
============

Installation and Maintenance
----------------------------

* Simplified installation in Python Virtual Environments and newer Linux
  distributions.

  Python Virtual Environments provide a way to isolate Python applications
  and services from the system or other Python applications. They help you
  avoid various forms of installation problems. They're also now required
  in Ubuntu 23.04, Debian Bookworm, and Fedora 39.

  Review Board will now auto-detect if it's been installed with a Virtual
  Environment and perform the work to "activate" it automatically. This
  keeps installation and management of Review Board easy.

  We've updated our :ref:`installation guide <installation-linux>` to provide
  instructions for both Virtual Environment installation and traditional
  installation.

  .. note::

     If you're upgrading an existing server, you don't need to worry about
     Virtual Environments right now.

     However, if you plan to upgrade to a newer Linux distribution, you will
     need to re-install using Virtual Environments.

* Added new :rb-management-command:`pip` and :rb-management-command:`python`
  site management commands.

  These are used to execute the correct versions of :command:`pip` and
  :command:`python` for your installation. They're recommended over using
  the system versions of these commands, if you're building integrations
  or automation scripts.


Integrations
------------

* Added a web-based login flow for the upcoming RBTools 5.

  Users of the in-development RBTools_ 5 will be able to authenticate with
  Review Board using your standard web-based login flow (such as Single
  Sign-On, LDAP, or Active Directory), instead of supplying a username and
  password to RBTools.

  This feature will be available to all users once RBTools 5 is released.

* Improved selecting review groups and repositories when configuring
  integrations.

  When configuring integrations based on review groups or repositories,
  you'll now be able to search for the items you want and see the items
  that were selected.

  This is a more refined experience over the old one, which was hard to use
  on large installations and made it hard to select the items you wanted.


.. _RBTools: https://www.reviewboard.org/downloads/rbtools/


Bug Fixes
=========

Authentication
--------------

* Fixed crashes that could occur during the Single Sign-On process.

* Fixed navigating to the redirect URL after logging in with Single Sign-On.

  If you navigate to a page in Review Board, and you're required to log in
  first, you'll be taken back to the page after logging in successfully.

* Fixed the display of the Log Out page.


Installation
------------

* Fixed site upgrades between pre-release versions of Review Board when the
  latest versions of the :pypi:`setuptools` package is installed.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
