.. default-intersphinx:: djblets5.x rb7.x


================================
Review Board 7.0.3 Release Notes
================================

**Release date**: TBD


Installation/Upgrade
====================

Review Board 7.0.3 is compatible with Python 3.8 - 3.12.

Follow our :ref:`installation guide <installing-reviewboard-toc>` to prepare
your system for Review Board or to upgrade your existing install.

To install this release, run:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip3 install ReviewBoard==7.0.3

To learn more, see:

* :ref:`Documentation <reviewboard-docs>`
* :ref:`Installing Review Board on Docker <installation-docker>`
* `Power Pack for Review Board <https://www.reviewboard.org/powerpack/>`_
* :pypi:`Review Board on PyPI <reviewboard>`
* `Review Board on GitHub <https://github.com/reviewboard/reviewboard>`_

For assistance with your server, `talk to us about support <Review Board
Support_>`_.


.. _Review Board Support: https://www.reviewboard.org/support/


Packaging
=========

* :pypi:`Django` 4.2.17 (or a higher 4.2.x) is now required.

  This is the latest security release for Django 4.2 LTS.


Performance Improvements
========================

* Greatly improved search indexing performance when :ref:`ACL diff checks
  <filediff-acl-hook>` are provided by extensions.

* Reduced the chances of Review Board needing to reload and re-apply all
  settings.


Usability Improvements
======================

We've fixed and improved several mobile-related issues across the product in
this release:

* Review request banners and the comment dialog have an improved look on
  mobile.

* Menus are no longer shown partially off-screen.

* Touch events now work consistently for menu buttons, drop-downs, banners,
  and comment flags.

* Review request actions are no longer cut off on small screen widths.

* Diff comments on new or deleted files are no longer shown partially
  off-screen.

* File attachment comment thumbnails can now be scrolled when they're too big
  to show on the screen.

* The list of diff files in the change history are no longer shown partially
  off-screen.

* The mobile menu correctly renders Extension-provided navigation entries.


Bug Fixes
=========

Administration
--------------

* Fixed wrapping issues when selecting users to add to groups, repositories,
  or Default Reviewers.

  When there were long usernames or full names, the UI for selecting users
  could wrap in confusing ways. We've reworked the display of the widget to
  avoid this.

* Removed some confusing debug logging around authentication attempts that
  incorrectly indicated a problem when logging in via the API.


.. _Power Pack: https://www.reviewboard.org/powerpack/


Diff Viewer
-----------

* Fixed breaking long lines containing tabs in Firefox.

  Firefox has a non-standard way of breaking long strings of text, which
  doesn't behave well with tabs. We've worked around this with Firefox,
  ensuring very long lines containing tabs render correctly.

* Improved the display of large images in diffs.

  Images too large to fit in the diff viewer will now be scaled down
  correctly, showing the zoom controls and scroll bar.

* Added workarounds for parsing malformed diffs that lack both trailing
  newlines and the ``\ No newline at end of file`` marker.

  These are generated on some buggy older versions of GNU Patch and by some
  third-party patch tools.

* Fixed being able to scroll the list of existing comments on a line in the
  comment dialog.


File Attachments
----------------

* Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to detect mimetypes for file
  attachments.

  This could occur in very particular environments, depending on the version
  and implementation of Python and of the :command:`file` command.

* Fixed the URL for downloading file attachments when using the advanced
  :term:`Local Sites` server partitioning feature.


Repositories
------------

* Fixed a regression in attempting to migrate legacy repository backend
  support from old installs of Review Board.

  This could impact configurations provided by custom extensions or by
  `Power Pack`_, depending on the versions in use. Most users wouldn't have
  hit this.

* Fixed a crash when failing to decrypt stored repository credentials.

  This could occur if the data was corrupted or the server's ``SECRET_KEY``
  was changed. Instead of crashing, we now log the error and invalidate the
  credentials, allowing an administrator to supply new ones.

* Fixed the display of authentication errors on Subversion.


Review Requests
---------------

* Fixed a regression where file attachment thumbnails in review request
  change history could disappear.

  The data was not missing. It was simply not being shown correctly.

* Fixed the appearance of the administrator-specific draft banner on dark
  mode.

* Fixed visually selecting Markdown code in comments and other text.


Search
------

* Fixed the display of the search results in dark mode.


Review Board Platform
=====================

This section covers important changes that may benefit or impact developers
building extensions, clients, or integrations for Review Board.

See also:

* `Djblets 5.2 Release Notes
  <https://www.reviewboard.org/docs/releasenotes/djblets/5.2/>`_


REST API
--------

* Fixed authentication issues when creating new hosting service account
  entries using the :ref:`webapi2.0-hosting-service-account-list-resource`
  API.

  This API now correctly integrates with the hosting service implementation's
  authentication process to perform any authentication required. It does
  require that the caller provides the necessary credentials to authenticate
  with that specific service.

* Fixed a crash with performing a HTTP GET on the
  :ref:`webapi2.0-watched-resource`.


Extensions
----------

* Added :py:meth:`FileAttachment.is_review_ui_accessible_by()
  <reviewboard.attachments.models.FileAttachment.is_review_ui_accessible_by>`
  for determining if a user can access a review UI.

  This is important for showing the available actions for a user based on
  any policy changes that may be provided by extensions.

* Added new administration UI :ref:`template hook points
  <extensions-template-hook>` for rendering custom HTML:

  * ``admin-sidebar-administration``:
    At the bottom of the built-in items in the "Administration" section of the
    sidebar.

  * ``admin-sidebar-settings``
    At the bottom of the built-in items in the "Settings" section of the
    sidebar.

  * ``admin-sidebar-manage``
    At the bottom of the built-in items in the "Manage" section of the
    sidebar.

* Added new CSS Variables for representing colors:

  * ``--rb-p-flag-draft-bg``: Background color for a draft comment flag.
  * ``--rb-p-flag-draft-hover-bg``: Background hover color for a draft
    comment flag.
  * ``--rb-p-flag-draft-fg``: Foreground color for a draft comment flag.
  * ``--rb-p-flag-draft-border-color``: Border color for a draft comment flag.
  * ``--rb-p-flag-published-bg``: Background color for a published comment
    flag.
  * ``--rb-p-flag-published-hover-bg``: Background hover color for a published
    comment flag.
  * ``--rb-p-flag-published-fg``: Foreground color for a published comment
    flag.
  * ``--rb-p-flag-published-border-color``: Border color for a published
    comment flag.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
* Raymond Lam
