.. default-intersphinx:: djblets5.x rb7.x


================================
Review Board 7.0.1 Release Notes
================================

**Release date**: July 2, 2024


Installation/Upgrade
====================

Review Board 7.0.1 is compatible with Python 3.8 - 3.12.

Follow our :ref:`installation guide <installing-reviewboard-toc>` to prepare
your system for Review Board or to upgrade your existing install.

To install this release, run:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip3 install ReviewBoard==7.0.1

To learn more, see:

* :ref:`Documentation <reviewboard-docs>`
* :ref:`Installing Review Board on Docker <installation-docker>`
* `Power Pack for Review Board <https://www.reviewboard.org/powerpack/>`_
* :pypi:`Review Board on PyPI <reviewboard>`
* `Review Board on GitHub <https://github.com/reviewboard/reviewboard>`_

For assistance with your server, `talk to us about support <Review Board
Support_>`_.


.. _Review Board Support: https://www.reviewboard.org/support/


Usablity Improvements
=====================

* Revamped the integration condition rules UI.

  The UI for configuring integrations has been completely redone to provide
  a better overall experience. It looks cleaner and better handles different
  screen sizes. It's also more accessible, allowing for keyboard navigation
  and communicating certain actions to screen readers (though further work is
  still required on accessibility).


Bug Fixes
=========

Compatibility Fixes
===================

* This release contains an important compatibility fix for RBTools 5.

  When using RBTools 5 to post changes to Git-based repositories using
  Review Board 7, it was possible to trigger a crash, due to a bad
  assumption made when scanning for compatible repositories.

  If you're using Review Board 7, we strongly recommend upgrading to
  Review Board 7.0.1.


General
-------

* Improved stability and recovery when the memcached server is down or
  misconfigured.

* Fixed the font size in the navigation links at the top of the page.

  Review Board 7.0 reduced the size of this font. It's now been restored to
  the size it was before.


Administration UI
-----------------

* Fixed being able to confirm deletions of data in the database.

  The :guilabel:`Yes, I'm sure` button, shown when confirming the deletion
  of data, did nothing when clicked. It once again confirms the deletions as
  expected.

* Fixed being able to enable or disable extensions.


Diff Viewer
-----------

* Fixed a crash that could occur when computing the nearest class/function
  information for interdiffs.


Integrations
------------

* Fixed compatibility with changes made to :rbintegration:`Asana <asana>`.

  This has recently regressed, preventing people from linking review
  requests to related Asana tickets.


My Account
----------

* Fixed a small visual regression with the last My Account navigation item
  when selected.

  The border radius of the selection indicator was too small. This had no
  effect on the usage of the page.

* Fixed the size of the Save and Cancel buttons when editing API token
  information.


Reviews
-------

* Fixed a regression with resizing and moving comments when reviewing
  documents (using `Power Pack`_).

  This had regressed in Review Board 7.0.

* Fixed a regression with creating comments on top of existing ones
  when reviewing images and documents.

  This had regressed in Review Board 7.0.

* Fixed small inconsistencies when rendering a thumbnail for an image or
  document comment.

  The positions and sizes of the comments could previously differ from when
  the comment was first made. They should now always be consistent in
  appearance.


.. _Power Pack: https://www.reviewboard.org/powerpack/


Review Board Platform
=====================

This section covers important changes that may benefit or impact developers
building extensions, clients, or integrations for Review Board.

See also:

* `Djblets 5.1 Release Notes
  <https://www.reviewboard.org/docs/releasenotes/djblets/5.1/>`_


Extensions
----------

* Static media building for extensions no longer complains about a missing
  :file:`node_modules` directory.

  This was a regression in 7.0 due to a new extension static media builder.

* :js:class:`RegionCommentBlockView` now exposes ``moveState`` and ``scale``
  attributes for managing sizes and locations of comments.

  This class is responsible for displaying a rectangular comment on an
  image, document, or similar. These new attributes allow a review UI to
  intercept and manage how comments are positioned, moved, resized, and
  scaled.


Web API
-------

* :ref:`webapi2.0-root-resource` and :ref:`webapi2.0-server-info-resource`
  now contain a list of all supported SCMs.

  ``capabilities.scmtools.supported_tools`` has been added to both payloads,
  containing a list of IDs of the SCMs that the Review Board server supports.
  This will include all built-in SCMs, along with those provided by
  extensions.

* :ref:`webapi2.0-repository-resource` now accepts SCM IDs in the
  ``tool=`` argument, along with the legacy SCMTool names.

* Fixed a bug in :ref:`webapi2.0-repository-resource` where passing an
  unsupported SCMTool name could result in a crash.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* Daniel Casares-Iglesias
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
