.. default-intersphinx:: djblets5.x rb7.x


==============================
Review Board 7.0 Release Notes
==============================

**Release date**: TBD

This release contains all bug fixes and features from Review Board version
:doc:`6.0.2 <6.0.2>`.


Installation/Upgrade
====================

Review Board 7.0 is compatible with Python 3.8 - 3.12.

Follow our :ref:`installation guide <installing-reviewboard-toc>` to prepare
your system for Review Board or to upgrade your existing install.

To install this release, run:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip3 install ReviewBoard==7.0

To learn more, see:

* :ref:`Documentation <reviewboard-docs>`
* :ref:`Installing Review Board on Docker <installation-docker>`
* `Power Pack for Review Board <https://www.reviewboard.org/powerpack/>`_
* :pypi:`Review Board on PyPI <reviewboard>`
* `Review Board on GitHub <https://github.com/reviewboard/reviewboard>`_

For assistance with your server, `talk to us about support <Review Board
Support_>`_.


.. _Review Board Support: https://www.reviewboard.org/support/


Upgrade Notes
=============

* This release contains database schema changes to the following tables:

  * ``notifications_webhooktarget``

  This will take a small amount of time to migrate the database. Please test
  the upgrade on a copy of your database first, to ensure the upgrade is smooth
  and to time how long the upgrade takes.

  .. important::

     Do **not** cancel the upgrade on a production system for **any reason**.
     Doing so will corrupt your database, requiring a backup or our repair
     service.


Compatibility
=============

* Review Board 7.0 supports Python 3.8 - 3.12.

* :pypi:`Djblets` 5.0 is required.
* :pypi:`Django` 4.2 is required.

* Switched DMARC checking library from :pypi:`publicsuffix` to
  :pypi:`publicsuffixlist`

  The old publicsuffix module is deprecated, and was increasingly incompatible
  with modern Python versions. DMARC support has been switched to the new
  publicsuffixlist module.


New Features
============

Binary Files in Diffs
---------------------

Review Board now supports displaying, reviewing, and diffing certain types of
binary files included as part of your code diffs.

At the moment, this is limited to image files but support for additional file
types are in the works.

This requires posting your changes with `RBTools`_ 5.0+, and is supported for a
limited set of version control systems:

* Git
* Mercurial
* Perforce
* Subversion

Support for a wider variety of file types and version control systems is
coming in future versions. If there's something in particular that you would
like to see, please let us know.

.. todo:: screenshots

.. _RBTools: https://reviewboard.org/downloads/rbtools/


Dark Mode (experimental)
------------------------

Review Board 7 comes with an experimental Dark Mode. Users can choose in their
profile settings whether to use Light Mode (the default), Dark Mode, or to
follow the system theme (which can often be configured to change based on the
time of day).

.. note::

   Dark Mode is still a work in progress, and there may be isolated parts of
   the user interface which look odd or incorrect. If you notice anything that
   does not look good in Dark Mode, please let us know.

.. todo:: screenshots


Diff Viewer
-----------

* Diffs can now be reviewed on mobile devices.

  The diff viewer has been updated with a new responsive mode when viewing on
  mobile devices. This will change the display from the two-column view into a
  single column for content. This makes it much easier to read and interact
  with diffs on phones and other mobile devices.

.. todo:: screenshots

* Added touchscreen support for the revision selector.

* Added commit information to the hint for comments on other revisions.

  When a draft review contains comments on multiple revisions of the diff, the
  diff viewer will show a hint listing all the revisions that the draft
  comments are present on. This previously did not include information about
  comments on commit ranges.


Integrations
------------

* Integration with :rbintegration:`Microsoft Teams <msteams>`

  Microsoft Teams is a team collaboration application, offering workspace
  chat.

  Review Board can integrate with Microsoft Teams to post notifications
  whenever review requests and reviews are published. You can have multiple
  different Microsoft Teams configurations to deliver notifications to
  different channels (or even different teams).

* Updated compatibility for slash normalization in newer versions of
  :rbintegration:`Jenkins <jenkins>`.

  For a while, Jenkins disallowed using slashes in job names, and required
  normalizing them to underscores. In newer versions, slashes are required.

  The jenkins integration now provides separate template variables for
  ``{branch_name}`` and ``{noslash_branch_name}``, and for
  ``{repository_name}`` and ``{noslash_repository_name}``.

  Existing configurations may require manual changes, as slashes appearing in a
  job name outside of a variable are no longer converted to underscores.

* Added guided help to the :rbintegration:`CircleCI <circleci>` and
  :rbintegration:`Jenkins <jenkins>` configuration forms.

* Added configurable timeouts to all CI integration backends.

  If a build on :rbintegration:`CircleCI <circleci>`, :rbintegration:`Jenkins
  <jenkins>`, or :rbintegration:`Travis CI <travis-ci>` failed without
  notifying Review Board, the status update would just show that it was waiting
  forever. These integrations now allow you to specify an optional timeout
  value, after which the build will be marked as failed and allow users to
  trigger a retry.


Extensions
----------

* Added a new ``--pytest`` argument to :ref:`rbext-test`.

  This flag allows opting in to the Pytest_-based test runner instead of
  :pypi:`nose`.

* Extensions can now be built using modern TypeScript, JavaScript, and CSS
  tools.

  Review Board 7 includes a new static media building framework that makes it
  easier to consume Review Board's JavaScript and CSS, as well as build the
  front-end part of extensions using modern frameworks.

  :py:mod:`reviewboard.extensions.packaging` will now set up symbolic links
  to the Review Board and Djblets source trees inside of
  :file:`.npm-workspaces`, as well as create basic configurations for Babel_,
  Rollup_, and TSC_ (the TypeScript compiler).


.. _Pytest: https://pytest.org
.. _Babel: https://babeljs.io
.. _Rollup: https://rollupjs.org
.. _TSC: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/compiler-options.html


Security Middleware
-------------------

The Django :ref:`Security Middleware <django4.2:security-middleware>` has been
added to the default middleware.

By default, we have set this up to set the :mailheader:`X-Content-Type-Options`
header to ``nosniff``. Review Board was not vulnerable to this particular
problem, but having the header can make some security scanning software less
noisy. This middleware also allows configuring many other policies such as
HSTS_, `referrer policies`_, and `cross origin opener policies`_.

The settings to enable these and set specific policies can be added to your
:file:`settings_local.py` file. The particular values for these settings will
depend on your deployment and environment, so we have not enabled any of them
by default. See the `Django documentation`_ on the security middleware for
details.

.. _HSTS: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Strict-Transport-Security
.. _referrer policies: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Referrer-Policy
.. _cross origin opener policies: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy
.. _Django documentation: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/ref/middleware/#module-django.middleware.security


``clean-orphaned-data`` management command
------------------------------------------

Two bugs in prior versions of Review Board could potentially allow data to
remain in the database in an orphaned state after certain delete or discard
actions.

A new :ref:`management command <clean-orphaned-data>` has been added that can
delete this data, saving a bit of space in the database and filesystem.

To run the command, type:

.. code-block:: console

   $ rb-site manage /path/to/sitedir clean-orphaned-data [<options>]


Web API
=======

* Added ``?binary=...`` to the :ref:`webapi2.0-file-diff-list-resource` to query
  for only files that are marked as binary.

* Added the new ``encoding`` field to the :ref:`webapi2.0-file-diff-resource`.


Performance Improvements
========================

* Improved database query performance when :term:`Local Sites` are not in use.

  Local Sites are an advanced feature for isolating some portions of a server,
  and are not used by most deployments. The performance of many database
  queries has been improved for the case where there are no Local Sites.

* Significantly improved the performance of database queries for the dashboard.

  The dashboard is one of the most complicated uses of Review Board's database,
  and in some cases could experience performance problems. The database queries
  that drive the dashboard have been significantly optimized, especially when
  running on MySQL.

* Improved performance when guessing MIME types for uploaded files.

* Improved the performance of querying file attachments via the API.


Usability Improvements
======================

* Finished changing :guilabel:`Close -> Submitted` to :guilabel:`Close ->
  Completed`.

  The word "submitted" throughout the Review Board UI was a holdover from the
  very earliest days of the tool, and we had followed the Perforce naming
  convention for when changes were pushed to a central repository. This has
  long been a source of confusion, so we've renamed this state to "completed".
  The bulk of this happened in Review Board 6, but there were a few cases where
  the old "submitted" label could still be seen.

* Fixed alignment issues when viewing diffs of image file attachments.

* Various components such as buttons and menus use ARIA accessibility APIs more
  consistently and correctly.

* Fixed a number of user interface elements that did not have sufficient
  contrast between the background and the text.

* Fixed an issue where using the scroll wheel or gesture when the mouse was
  hovered over the comment dialog could scroll the page far away from the
  current position.

* Updated the complexity icon shown for files in the diff to include a better
  tooltip and accessibility metadata.

* Redesigned the trophy display to be a bit more fun.


Bug Fixes
=========


General
-------

* Fixed a visual glitch with the page background when content did not occupy
  the full viewport.

* Fixed various thread safety bugs in the Review Board server.

  Review Board is built with several internal "registries" to keep track of
  things like version control systems, authentication backends, and many other
  things. These would occasionally hit problems when running in deployments
  where the web server runs with multiple threads, causing errors to spew into
  logs, and occasionally to have missing or duplicate items. These thread
  safety bugs have been fixed.


Dashboard
---------

* Fixed dashboard display in locales that use commas for decimal places.

  Datagrid columns which specify widths (specifically columns which expand to
  fill the available space) would display incorrectly in locales such as German
  which use commas for decimals instead of periods. This has been fixed.

* Added some additional default columns to the :guilabel:`All Review Requests` datagrid.

  The :guilabel:`All Review Requests` page was missing a couple important
  columns. The :guilabel:`Ship It/Issue Counts` and :guilabel:`New Updates`
  columns have been added to the default configuration.

  Existing users who have configured their columns for this page will need to
  add these manually if they want them.

* Fixed dashboard errors when URLs contained invalid sort query data.

  For public-facing servers, some web crawlers would assemble URLs with invalid
  sort querystrings, which was causing error e-mails to be sent to the admin.
  These will now report an error back to the client but not fail in a way that
  triggers emails or crash logs.


Review Requests
---------------

* Fixed to delete all appropriate data when permanently deleting review
  requests or discarding drafts and unpublished review requests.

  When a review request is posted with a diff, and then discarded without ever
  being published, some data could remain in the database.

  Similarly, permanently deleting a review request could leave various pieces
  of data in the database or in file storage. Review Board is primarily
  designed to never delete data, and only administrators had the ability to
  delete review requests entirely.

  See :ref:`rb-site manage clean-orphaned-data <clean-orphaned-data>` for
  information on how to clean up orphaned data from existing systems.

* Fixed errors when attempting to use :guilabel:`Update Diff` on a review
  request that includes commit history.

  When posting a change using RBTools with either Git or Mercurial, the review
  request will keep track of all the commits included in your change. This
  allows you to see the individual commits that are part of each diff revision.
  Updating the diff for these requires using RBTools again.

  Previously, attempting to use the :guilabel:`Update Diff` UI and uploading a
  diff file would cause an error. Now this UI will show a message indicating
  that the Review Request is tracking commit history and give instructions for
  updating via RBTools.


Diff Viewer
-----------

* Fixed scrolling to anchors in the diff viewer.

  Links to particular locations in the diff viewer (such as a link to a
  particular file/line, or clicking a link from a comment to the Reviews tab to
  jump to that comment in the diff viewer) were not working correctly. These
  have been fixed to scroll to the relevant line as soon as the file in
  question is loaded.


Reviews
-------

* Prevented empty reviews from being published.

  The new review banner in :doc:`Review Board 6 <6.0>` made it easier to accidentally
  publish empty reviews. This has been fixed.

* Fixed links for comments made on commit ranges.

  When a comment was made on a specific range of commits or an individual
  commit within a diff, the link from that comment back to the diff viewer
  would not load the correct commit revisions. This has been fixed.

* Fixed comment flags shown on the diff viewer line numbers when viewing a
  commit range with comments.

  When viewing a range of commits in the diff viewer, flags for comments
  corresponding to that commit range were not correctly shown on the files in
  the diff.

* Fixed an issue where the diff excerpt shown for comments on commit ranges
  could sometimes display using the wrong tip commit, showing a different diff
  from the one the commenter was looking at when they made the comment.

* Fixed a bug with the :ref:`issue-summary-table` where comments of different
  types that happened to have the same database ID could cause web browser
  caching conflicts.

* Fixed expanding collapsed reviews when clicking links to them.

  When clicking a link to a review, the page would scroll to it but if the
  review was collapsed, it would not get expanded. These links will now scroll
  to the correct place and expand the review box.


File Attachments
----------------

* Review UIs now display an error if attempting to show a diff between two
  revisions of a file where the two revisions do not have the same file type.

* Fixed a case where showing a diff between two revisions of an image
  attachment could load the page with the two sides having different zoom
  levels.

* Added ``text/markdown`` as a supported MIME type for the Markdown Review UI.

  Most systems used to use ``text/x-markdown`` as the MIME type for Markdown
  files, but many are starting to change this. Files uploaded by browsers with
  a ``text/markdown`` type will now be reviewable.

* Added a dedicated URL for file attachment downloads.

  When using a file storage backend that expires URLs (such as Amazon S3),
  Review Board could end up caching URLs for assets that expire before the
  user views them. Review Board will now create a stable URL that can
  regenerate the storage URL when necessary.


New Review Request
------------------

* Fixed problems with the "New Review Request" UI when uploading diff files
  using version control systems other than Git. (:bug:`5013`)

  On some version control systems, after providing a diff file, Review Board
  was supposed to prompt for more information (such as the base directory path
  between the root of the repository and the directory the diff was created
  from). This was showing a blank screen instead of prompting for this
  information.


My Account
----------

* Fixed a bug where Gravatar-based avatar settings were failing to save because
  of a problem with the form.


Authentication
---------------

* Fixed redirect loops when logging in.

  When attempting to log in from the log-out page, a redirect loop could cause
  the user to get logged out again immediately after logging in.


E-mail Notifications
--------------------

* Fixed a bug where files in diffs were sometimes listed twice.


Local Sites
-----------

* Fixed URLs for batch operations when using a :term:`Local Site`.


Administration
--------------

* Fixed batch actions (such as delete) for items in the admin database pages.

* Fixed invisible links to file attachments without captions set in
  :guilabel:`Admin UI -> Database -> File Attachments`.

* Fixed incorrect form validation errors when switching search backends.

* Fixed visual glitches with text alignment in the :guilabel:`Server Cache`
  dashboard widget.

* Fixed word-wrapping issues with names in the :guilabel:`Repositories`
  dashboard widget.

* Fixed multiple tooltips showing up when mousing over data points in the
  :guilabel:`Server Activity` dashboard widget.

* Increased the maximum length of the URL field for WebHook targets.

  The default length for URLs was 200 characters, but some services which
  accept WebHook notifications create URLs longer than that. This limit has
  been increased to 512 characters.

* Fixed :rbintegration:`Travis CI <travis-ci>` configuration UI to properly
  limit repositories to GitHub.

  Travis CI only works with GitHub repositories. A regression had made it
  so the configuration UI would allow administrators to select non-GitHub
  repositories, which would then fail to run.


Integrations
------------

* The :rbintegration:`Discord <discord>` Discord integration has been updated
  to truncate long field values in messages in order to avoid hitting character
  length limits with the Discord server.

* Fixed links in chat integrations for review replies.

  Notifications sent to chat services for replies to reviews were linking to
  the correct page, but would not scroll to the relevant reply.


Docker
------

* Fixed bugs with installing Perforce in the Docker image.

* Fixed bundling of LDAP support in Review Board docker images. (:bug:`5023`)

  Patch by Florian Miedniak.


Extensions
==========

* Removed caching of HideActionHook state.

  If an extension was using :ref:`HideActionHook <hide-action-hook>` to hide
  built-in actions, the state of that could be cached from before or after the
  extension was enabled or disabled, resulting in inconsistent hiding.

* The following functions now require passing some or all arguments as keyword
  arguments instead of positional:

  * :py:meth:`UploadFileForm.create()
    <reviewboard.attachments.forms.UploadFileForm.create>`
  * :py:meth:`DiffViewerView.get_context_data()
    <reviewboard.diffviewer.views.DiffviewerView.get_context_data>`
  * :py:func:`~reviewboard.reviews.context.make_review_request_context`

* The following items are newly deprecated:

  * The ``file_attachment`` argument to :py:meth:`ReviewUI.is_enabled_for()
    <reviewboard.reviews.ui.base.ReviewUI.is_enabled_for>` has been renamed to
    ``obj``.
  * :py:meth:`FileAttachmentReviewUI.get_best_handler()
    <reviewboard.reviews.ui.base.FileAttachmentReviewUI.get_best_handler>`
  * :py:meth:`FileAttachmentReviewUI.for_type()
    <reviewboard.reviews.ui.base.FileAttachmentReviewUI.for_type>`
  * :js:func:`RB.CommentIssueManager.setCommentState`
  * :js:func:`RB.CommentIssueManager.getComment`

Djblets 5.0 contains additional deprecations and removals. See the `release
notes`_ for details.

.. _release notes: https://www.reviewboard.org/docs/releasenotes/djblets/5.0/


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Florian Miedniak
* Michelle Aubin
