.. default-intersphinx:: djblets5.x rb7.x


================================
Review Board 7.0.5 Release Notes
================================

**Release date**: TBD


Installation/Upgrade
====================

Review Board 7.0.5 is compatible with Python 3.8 - 3.13.

Follow our :ref:`installation guide <installing-reviewboard-toc>` to prepare
your system for Review Board or to upgrade your existing install.

To upgrade to this release in an existing Review Board environment, run:

.. code-block:: console

    $ rb-site manage /path/to/sitedir pip install ReviewBoard==7.0.5
    $ rb-site upgrade /path/to/sitedir

To learn more, see:

* :ref:`Documentation <reviewboard-docs>`
* :ref:`Installing Review Board on Docker <installation-docker>`
* `Power Pack for Review Board <https://www.reviewboard.org/powerpack/>`_
* :pypi:`Review Board on PyPI <reviewboard>`
* `Review Board on GitHub <https://github.com/reviewboard/reviewboard>`_

For assistance with your server, `talk to us about support <Review Board
Support_>`_.


.. _Review Board Support: https://www.reviewboard.org/support/


Packaging
=========

* :pypi:`Django` 4.2.29 (or a higher 4.2.x) is now required.

  This is the latest security release for Django 4.2 LTS.

* :pypi:`cryptography` 46.0.5 and :pypi:`pyOpenSSL` 26.0.0 are now required.

  These are the latest security releases for the cryptography package.

* :pypi:`django-haystack` 3.3.0 is now required.

  This package update brings fixes for full-text search, and removes a
  dependency on the now obsolete `pkg_resources`, which has been causing
  breakages while installing Review Board 7.0.4.

* :pypi:`markdown` 3.7.0 or newer and :pypi:`pymdown-extensions` 10.15.0 or
  newer are now required.

  These packages include numerous fixes to markdown processing.

* :pypi:`Pygments` 2.19.2 is now required.

  This includes numerous fixes and improvements to syntax highlighting.


New Features
============

* Support for Bitbucket API tokens (:bug:`5058`).

  Bitbucket has switched from app passwords to `Atlassian API tokens`_.
  Bitbucket has already turned off the ability to create new app passwords, and
  existing ones will stop working in June 2026.

  Review Board now supports connecting to Bitbucket repositories with these API
  tokens, and all users who use Bitbucket are encouraged to upgrade as soon as
  possible in order to migrate to these.

  See :ref:`Link Your Bitbucket Account <bitbucket-link-account>` for more
  information on how to create and use these API tokens.


.. _Atlassian API Tokens: https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/using-api-tokens/


Bug Fixes
=========

General
-------

* Fixed adding comments to file attachments which do not have a specialized
  review UI for display.

* Fixed the user privacy preferences form to disallow redirecting to arbitrary
  URLs after saving.

  This form contained an open redirect, possibly allowing a maliciously-crafted
  link to redirect users in a confusing way.

* Fixed display of Markdown headers in dark mode.

  Markdown headers (such as a line starting with ``#``) would always render in
  black, making them nearly impossible to read when Review Board was running in
  dark mode. This has been fixed to properly use the theme.

* Fixed the "last page" link in search results (:bug:`4820`)

  Depending on the exact number of search results, clicking "last page" would
  often navigate to the second-to-last page instead. This has been fixed.

  Patch by Daniel Casares-Iglesias.


Installation and upgrades
-------------------------

* Fixed :command:`rb-site install` to fail immediately if the installed
  environment cannot load properly.

  The install command would previously allow proceeding through several steps
  and then fail with confusing errors if the Python environment with all of
  Review Board's dependencies could not be loaded. This has been fixed to fail
  early instead.


Administration
---------------

* Fixed alignment of form fields in various settings pages.

* Fixed alignment in the display of related users for groups and repositories.


REST API
--------

* Fixed the descriptions for the ``url`` and ``absolute_url`` fields in the
  :ref:`webapi2.0-review-group-resource`.

  The documentation for these was incorrectly copied from a different API
  endpoint.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* Daniel Casares-Iglesias
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
